>> For the first time,
the United States House
of Representatives has passed
a bill that would decriminalize
cannabis.
This is "Gaia News."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
An historic measure
passed the House
of Representatives,
new legislation that
would decriminalize marijuana.
Meaning it would not
only make it legal,
but would expunge the criminal
records of nonviolent marijuana
offenders.
The MORE Act, or Marijuana
Opportunity Reinvestment
and Expungement
Act, was originally
sponsored in 2019 by New
York Democrat Jerry Nadler,
but taken up and passed
in December of 2020.
The purpose of
the bill does more
than making cannabis legal, but
would also enact a percent tax
on the sale of
cannabis that would
be reinvested in communities
hurt by the war on drugs
and remove some criminal
charges for people convicted
of marijuana related crimes.
Congressman Nadler said
in a statement, quote,
"I have long believed that the
criminalization of marijuana
has been a mistake, and the
racially disparate enforcement
of marijuana laws has only
compounded this mistake
with serious
consequences, particularly
for communities of color."
How did we get here?
Jerry Brown, professor
at Florida International
University and author of "The
Psychedelic Gospels," explains.
>> These drugs were demonized
in the 1970's when Nixon called
Leary the most dangerous man
in America, Timothy Leary.
If only that were our
biggest problem today,
one of Nixon's two
top aides admitted.
We knew these drugs, the
psychedelic drugs, cannabis,
were not harmful, but we
had a political problem.
We had a civil rights
movement and we
had an anti-war movement.
This is where that
all came from.
And all the promising
research that
went on in the '50s and '60s.
Over 1,000 studies on 40,000
human subjects kind of
got washed away
in that hysteria.
>> After decades of being
demonized by politicians,
media, and society, are we
in the midst of an awakening
regarding the
benefits of cannabis?
Brigitte Mars, herbalist,
university professor,
and author of "Addiction
Free Naturally,"
responds to the significance
of this legislation.
>> We're going to find out
that this is a plant that could
replace many, many
pharmaceuticals,
because it really was one of
the major pharmaceutical herbs
at the turn of the 1900's.
So the potential for this
plant helping the environment
as well as for the
healing of humanity.
You know, and I'd
like to remind people
that in Genesis, in the Bible
it says, you know, behold, I
have given you every
herb bearing seed.
There was nothing
about like, but don't
use that one, which is
probably the most useful one.
>> Some representatives opposed
to the measure still hold
on to the old notion that
marijuana is a gateway drug.
>> You know, most alcoholics
started out with milk.
So is milk a gateway drug?
And cannabis is an herb that
is enabling a lot of people
to get off their
anxiety medication,
antidepressants,
and even to get off of some
of their pain medicine.
But I, you know, really
think that using things
with intention and in
good company, maybe
when your work is done or
when you're wanting something
to help your
creativity, is certainly
different than using something
to undermine your health
and destroy your
relationships and your family
and your career.
>> There's a lot
of work to be done.
But for a long time herbalist
and marijuana advocate,
what does this mean?
>> Legalization of cannabis
has been a very, very long,
drawn out agenda.
And so I'm really
glad to see progress.
You know, I'm a
medical herbalist.
So of all the plants
that I've studied,
I do not know any
other herb that
does as many things for the
environment, for our health,
for the health of our
planet than cannabis.
So this is good news.
>> The good news is that
advocates are one step closer
to making this a law.
However, the bill would have
to move on to the Senate
where it faces a difficult, if
not impossible path to passage.
But advocates are hopeful
that the future is
much greener on the other side.
For a new perspective,
this is "Gaia News."